Hey!

My name is Michael and I like to code!

In a nutshell, I make RESTful api’s using Spring, Single Page Applications using React, Mobile Apps using React Native and MongoDB and perform DevOps using Docker and Amazon Web Services.

Believe it or not, I only have 4 years of development experience.  Most of my knowledge is self taught, because by day, I work as a contractor developing Microservices in Spring Boot and UIs in Angular 5.  But by night, I moonlight as an aspiring mobile app developer, which is what has driven my learning in AWS, React and React Native.

Now, a brief description of my work background.

My first job, I was working as a consultant for a Financial Firm in Delaware.  I was part of a team of three people to convert about 30 financial reports used by the Department of Treasury from WebFocus to Jasper.  Of those 30 some reports, I did 23.  Now it is worth mentioning that these reports have been used for over a decade in production.  Of the 23 reports I converted, 5 had pre-existing production level defects.  Meaning the WebFocus versions had production defects that I discovered, confirmed and corrected with my Jasper version.

After that, my company re-assigned me to a new contract with the same Financial Firm, but it was in Long Island City;  here I was first introduced to Spring Boot Microservices.  Unfortunately, due to issues with my consulting company at the time, I was only able to stay at this position for 4 months.  But during that time, I worked on developing the backend api for the Firm’s Debit Card Quick Lock feature on the Firm’s Mobile App.

Which brings me to my current position, which is a contractor at a different Financial Firm in Jersey City.  I feel I have accomplished a lot at my current position.  I work on a team that supports applications for global markets and trading; most of which are legacy, monolythic applications that we have slowly been converting to microservices.  My most significant accomplishment I would have to say is discovering a CSRF, Authorization vulnerability in our microservices architecture and creating the solution ...let me explain.  Of the 100+ apps my department supports, we’ve converted about 40 of them from monolithic applications to microservices in addition to creating about 12-14 new applications, also based with microservices.  All of which sit behind a Netflix Zuul Proxy gateway and Ribbon load balancer...which I was able to (ethically) hack into using a simple html file with inline javascript to perform a CSRF attack.  After presenting my findings I offered a solution...which was securing our Zuul Proxy with OAuth2.  This lead to me creating an example I uploaded to my Github, which became the “seed” for what we actually implemented at the Firm I work for.

Coding, without a doubt, is my favorite thing to do in my free time.  You hear the expression, “do what you love and you will never work a day in your life”...that describes me perfectly.  I am so early into my career, but I feel I have just started to master developing applications with Java and Spring on the backend and React on the frontend.  I have plans to learn so much more...Scala, Python, AI programming...the sky's the limit.

Thanks for your time!  Hopefully, we can get together and discuss some of cool things we can do with technology!

-Mike
